# Idea

I have an idea for a new open source Github Project called fgate.

Agentic Coding is better more and more important as of April 2026. I want to accelerate, amplify my workflow, to allow me to manage even more taks and agents with my attention which is becoming more and more limited by all the parallel tasks I'm doing.

The idea of fgate is to create 5 agents skills/commands to drive my coding workflow. They should be implemented in most AI coding systems (targetting gemini CLI, copilot, claude code which are already installed on my system). It should use standard agent protocols (e.g., agent skills io) and plug systems (e.g., gemini cli extension, claude code marketplace/plugins, ...). If needed, use Python for scripting and distribution (e.g., through pypi) like for testing.

The tools will use the .agents folder as standard. THe goal is to maximize the time the agent is running, while minimizing the time needed by the human to operate the loop, and while maximizing the alignement between the two throught constant improvements.

Here are the 5 skills/commands:

- fprompt: take the user prompt. At this stage, the goal is to challenge the user as much as you can: ask questions, refine the prompt, clarifiy the needs and expectations. The goal is take as much input from the user at this stage, to minimize the time taken to review the code after. This will create a new task, with a number + short title (like a Github PR), friendly for text editor, such as ".agents/gates/1_add_social_authentification/". Prompts should be stored in .agents/[tasks-id-name]/human/prompt.md (short, to the point) and .agents/gates/[task-id-name]/agent/prompt.md (extended version for AI agent). Ask the user to start fplan with task ID or name (/fplan 1 or /fplan social auth)
- fplan: convert the prompt into a plan. The plan should investigate the code base, online docs, to create a precise specification for the task. The goal is to match the user intent with what the agent can observe. At this stage, if everything is correct, it should just prompt the user to go to the next step. If something was found that requires the user attention, ask him to decide. The plan should be in .agents/gates/[task-id-name]/human/plan.md (short summary, you see the pattern) and .agents/gates/agent/plan.md (much more redefined). If should provide concrete target to maximize agent running, and minimize the amount of time the human has to push the agent to continue. Using concrete objectives is key to drive the agent. If should have proper guardrails to maximize autonomy, while minimizing risks. Ask the user to start the implementation with task id or name (e.g., /fimplement 1 or social auth)
- fimplement: implement the plan. The goal is to read the agent plan to use the tool facility (e.g., parallel agents, skills, ...) to implement the task correctly. Again, minimize the attention required from the user, and maximize the agent autonomy. At this stage, do something until the end (even if not perfect) to move the objectives forward. You should then create a .agents/gates/[task-id-name]/human/review.md (short, to the point, with key points done and questions to ask or clarify) and .agents/gates/[task-id-name]/agent/review.md (with details on what was done, to keep a trace on the decision made ...). Then, ask the user to review (/freview 1 or social auth)
- freview: review the reviews done by the previous step. The goal is to work be sure everything is aligned with the user expectations, suggest next tasks or improvements. For new tasks, you can create new  one in .agents/gates/[task-id-name] like in prompt. For improvement, you can use .agents/gates/[task-id-name]/human/improve.md (again, short, to the point) and .agents/gates/[task-id-name]/agent/improve.md (more details). You should ask the user to either start a new plan (/fplan 1 or new auth) or improvement (/fimprove 1 or auth). You can ask the user if he wants to commit the work at this stage, using either gh or git with a proper conventional commit message.
- fimprove: take the improvement generated by the next task, and implement it. Here the goal is NOT to change the project, but the AI coding process. For instance, update AGENTS.md to keep memory, create new skills, ... this is to self improve, and become more and more efficient.

As you see, what I except for this project:

- Reduce human intervention, maxmize agent autonomy
- Keep a trace of what has been done, so prompts do not exist in coding agent history but as files that can be accessed and reviewed after
- Self improve, and constantly loop, put the user in a flow there he just have to launch the next step, and avoid draining his mental energy
- Standardize the layout: use AGENTS.md, .agents/skills and the new .agents/gates/.

Here are some impressive OSS project you can check for inspiration: <https://github.com/obra/superpowers> and <https://github.com/garrytan/gstack>. They might content some interesting content you can extract to help you write this project.
